---
publishDate: 2010-01-10T00:00:00
title: Irssi Replacing Pidgin
---

only few months ago, I found out this incredible irc client Irssi,
mainly because huntxu urged me to join some irc channels while pidgin
kept crashing for reasons unknown even though it has been
re-re-recompiled… now irssi is replacing pidgin.

first, what Irssi can do?

it’s an irc client obviously. but it’s more.
[bitlbee](http://www.bitlbee.org/main.php/news.r.html "bitlbee") added
support for jabber, msn, and many other protocols, which is why irssi
can almost replace pidgin.

another reason why irssi is awesome is the perl scripts. there are many
[here](http://scripts.irssi.org/ "irssi script") .  for now i’m only
using a few, but that’s enough for me.

configuring irssi is easy, just a few words the first time you start the
channels and you’re auto-joined ‘for the rest of your life’. loading
scripts are also simple. no wonder i can handle it. make typing ‘/help’
a habit whenever you encountered any problems or loading a new script.

some would recommend using irssi with screen. well, so far i couldn’t
see the benefit of it, for i’m not much of a coder and occasionally, i
need to refer to manpage while writing something, screen can’t provide a
dual view…

if you’re interested in my irssi configs, pls checkout  my github for
irssi. (just click the big github picture on the right and you’ll see)

for pidgin,

it supports more protocols with plugins which i don’t need. it supports
msn protocol but sometimes just doesn’t work. it supports fetion which
may be the cause of crashes. it supports file transfer but i only
exchange small files with huntxu. and it’s absolutely much larger than
irssi.

arch linux+awesome+irssi: keep it simple and stupid.

